doc/CREDITS.md, before:

References
==========
The script uses the following audio recordings:

[Gossner, <span title=Samuel>S.</span>](http://sgossner.versilstudios.com/), ed. (2019).
Versilian Community Sample Library [Audio file].
Retrieved from https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL
- These recordings are public domain (cc0) and are used for Westminster-style chimes
  and for night watches
- You only need
  [claves_ff.mp3](https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL/blob/master/Idiophones/Struck%20Idiophones/Claves/Legacy/claves_ff.wav)
  (in [the “Idiophones/Struck Idiophones“ folder](https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL/tree/master/Idiophones/Struck%20Idiophones/Claves/Legacy)),
  for the short strike in night watch annoucements,
  and all files in
  [the “Idiophones/Struck Idiophones/Tubular Bells 3 - Legacy”
  folder](https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL/tree/master/Idiophones/Struck%20Idiophones/Tubular%20Bells%203%20-%20Legacy),
  for the Westminster chime

[strangehorizon](https://soundcloud.com/sonic_kitchen). (2021).
Tuned Chau Gongs [Audio file].
Retrieved from https://freesound.org/people/strangehorizon/packs/32761/
- These recordings are public domain (cc0) and are used for Westminster-style chimes
  and for night watches
- You technically only need
  [the D#5 gong](https://freesound.org/people/strangehorizon/sounds/582159/)
  (The entire set used to be needed for the Westminster chime)

[Walter, <span title=Thomas>T.</span>](http://www.inchadney.com/) (2011).
Birds: Cuckoo.wav [Audio file].
Retrieved from https://freesound.org/people/inchadney/sounds/121203/
- This recording is cc-by-3.0 and is used by cuckoo mode

Commit message:

Update credits for cuckoo mode

doc/CREDITS.md, after:

References
==========

Samples-based playback
----------------------
The script uses the following audio recordings when method is set to samples:

[Gossner, <span title=Samuel>S.</span>](http://sgossner.versilstudios.com/), ed. (2019).
Versilian Community Sample Library [Audio file].
Retrieved from https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL
- These recordings are public domain (cc0) and are used for Westminster-style chimes
  and for night watches
- You only need
  [claves_ff.mp3](https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL/blob/master/Idiophones/Struck%20Idiophones/Claves/Legacy/claves_ff.wav)
  (in [the “Idiophones/Struck Idiophones“ folder](https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL/tree/master/Idiophones/Struck%20Idiophones/Claves/Legacy)),
  for the short strike in night watch annoucements,
  and all files in
  [the “Idiophones/Struck Idiophones/Tubular Bells 3 - Legacy”
  folder](https://github.com/sgossner/VCSL/tree/master/Idiophones/Struck%20Idiophones/Tubular%20Bells%203%20-%20Legacy),
  for the Westminster chime

[strangehorizon](https://soundcloud.com/sonic_kitchen). (2021).
Tuned Chau Gongs [Audio file].
Retrieved from https://freesound.org/people/strangehorizon/packs/32761/
- These recordings are public domain (cc0) and are used for Westminster-style chimes
  and for night watches
- You technically only need
  [the D#5 gong](https://freesound.org/people/strangehorizon/sounds/582159/)
  (The entire set used to be needed for the Westminster chime)


Both samples- and synth-based playback
--------------------------------------
The script always uses the following audio recordings when mode is set to cuckoo:

Benboncan. (2009).
Various Birds: Cuckoo.wav [Audio file].
Retrieved from https://freesound.org/people/Benboncan/sounds/72699/
- This recording is cc-by-3.0 and is used by cuckoo mode
