doc/Night_watches.md, before:

Night watches
=============
The Chinese night watch system was originally derived
from the proportional decimal hour system
that was in use during the Spring and Autumn and Warring States periods (c. 770–221 BC).
These proportional hours had names:

- daytime hours: morning, forenoon, midday, afternoon, evening
  (ˈdziu, ˌjy, ˈdzuŋ, ˈbou, ˍdzik)
- nighttime hours: A, B, C, D, E
  (ˉgap, ˍjyt, ˊbiŋ, ˈdiŋ, ˍmou)
  [(no kidding)](https://books.google.ca/books?id=QG-BDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT135&lpg=PT135&dq=%22%E5%8D%81%E6%99%82%E5%88%B6%22&source=bl&ots=ENC5L7th9-&sig=ACfU3U3aJYsGu7cDqL9gC7JllOcae0sQdw&hl=fr&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjOqcyp-LTyAhV2FjQIHbhPAXYQ6AF6BQi0AhAD#v=onepage&q=%22%E5%8D%81%E6%99%82%E5%88%B6%22&f=false)

In this system, the five night watches (ˈgaŋ), numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
were the hours A, B, C, D, E.

Each watch was subdivided into five equal parts
which we could call subwatches.
The beginnings of these five subwatches were called
points (ˊdim), numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

The system was later realigned to modern duodecimal hour boundaries,
but it’s superfluous to announce night watches of this later kind
if we’re already sounding Westminster-style chimes.
This is why this script follows the older, original system.
(Also, it’s useful to know “it’s now sundown”, etc.)

This script uses chimes that follow the patterns described by
[the Wikipedia article for Chinese night watches](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/打更):

- 1st watch: long–short, struck 3 times
- 2nd watch: short–short, struck 2 times
- 3rd watch: long–short–short, struck 3 times
- 4th watch: long–short–short–short, struck 4 times
- 5th watch: long–short–short–short–short, struck 5 times

All these except the first follow a recognizable pattern.
Striking a gong just once is too easy to miss,
so they used a pattern that didn’t fit:
The odd one out is the first watch.

References
----------
打更 [Calling out the hour]. (2021).
<cite>Wikipedia</cite>.
Retrieved August 17, 2021, from https://zh.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=%E6%89%93%E6%9B%B4&oldid=65321028

Lin, <span title="Tsung-Yi">T.-Y.</span> (2007).
午時三刻⸺古中國的時間制度
[“Three after seven”? Systems for timekeeping in ancient China].
<cite>Science Development, 420</cite>, 58–63.
Retrieved from https://ejournal.stpi.narl.org.tw/sd/view?vlId=E8E36F2F-73CB-4924-8F5F-D18489D89422
<!--or https://scitechvista.nat.gov.tw/Article/C000003/detail?ID=588a04c7-1a5f-46f9-b3a3-f6ce16c3af17-->

Commit message:

Note the more practical use for the night watch chimes

doc/Night_watches.md, after:

Night watches
=============
The Chinese night watch system was originally derived
from the proportional decimal hour system
that was in use during the Spring and Autumn and Warring States periods (c. 770–221 BC).
These proportional hours had names:

- daytime hours: morning, forenoon, midday, afternoon, evening
  (ˈdziu, ˌjy, ˈdzuŋ, ˈbou, ˍdzik)
- nighttime hours: A, B, C, D, E
  (ˉgap, ˍjyt, ˊbiŋ, ˈdiŋ, ˍmou)
  [(no kidding)](https://books.google.ca/books?id=QG-BDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT135&lpg=PT135&dq=%22%E5%8D%81%E6%99%82%E5%88%B6%22&source=bl&ots=ENC5L7th9-&sig=ACfU3U3aJYsGu7cDqL9gC7JllOcae0sQdw&hl=fr&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjOqcyp-LTyAhV2FjQIHbhPAXYQ6AF6BQi0AhAD#v=onepage&q=%22%E5%8D%81%E6%99%82%E5%88%B6%22&f=false)

In this system, the five night watches (ˈgaŋ), numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
were the hours A, B, C, D, E.

Each watch was subdivided into five equal parts
which we could call subwatches.
The beginnings of these five subwatches were called
points (ˊdim), numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

The system was later realigned to modern duodecimal hour boundaries,
but it’s superfluous to announce night watches of this later kind
if we’re already sounding Westminster-style chimes.
This is why this script follows the older, original system.
(Also, it’s useful to know “it’s now sundown”
or “it’s already past the middle of the night”, etc.)

This script uses chimes that follow the patterns described by
[the Wikipedia article for Chinese night watches](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/打更):

- 1st watch: long–short, struck 3 times
- 2nd watch: short–short, struck 2 times
- 3rd watch: long–short–short, struck 3 times
- 4th watch: long–short–short–short, struck 4 times
- 5th watch: long–short–short–short–short, struck 5 times

All these except the first follow a recognizable pattern.
Striking a gong just once is too easy to miss,
so they used a pattern that didn’t fit:
The odd one out is the first watch.

References
----------
打更 [Calling out the hour]. (2021).
<cite>Wikipedia</cite>.
Retrieved August 17, 2021, from https://zh.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=%E6%89%93%E6%9B%B4&oldid=65321028

Lin, <span title="Tsung-Yi">T.-Y.</span> (2007).
午時三刻⸺古中國的時間制度
[“Three after seven”? Systems for timekeeping in ancient China].
<cite>Science Development, 420</cite>, 58–63.
Retrieved from https://ejournal.stpi.narl.org.tw/sd/view?vlId=E8E36F2F-73CB-4924-8F5F-D18489D89422
<!--or https://scitechvista.nat.gov.tw/Article/C000003/detail?ID=588a04c7-1a5f-46f9-b3a3-f6ce16c3af17-->
